# java-programs

Sample Experiments:


Exercise – 1: 
a) Write a JAVA program to display default value of all primitive data type of JAVA 
b) Write a java program that display the roots of a quadratic equation ax2+bx=0. Calculate the 
discriminate D and basing on value of D, describe the nature of root. 


Exercise - 2
a) Write a JAVA program to search for an element in a given list of elements using binary 
search mechanism. 
b) Write a JAVA program to sort for an element in a given list of elements using bubble sort 
c) Write a JAVA program using String Buffer to delete, remove character. 


Exercise - 3
a) Write a JAVA program to implement class mechanism. Create a class, methods and invoke 
them inside main method. 
b) Write a JAVA program implement method overloading. 
c) Write a JAVA program to implement constructor. 
d)Write a JAVA program to implement constructor overloading. 


Exercise - 4
a) Write a JAVA program to implement Single Inheritance 
b) Write a JAVA program to implement multi level Inheritance 
c) Write a JAVA program for abstract class to find areas of different shapes


Exercise - 5
a) Write a JAVA program give example for “super” keyword. 
b) Write a JAVA program to implement Interface. What kind of Inheritance can be achieved? 
c) Write a JAVA program that implements Runtime polymorphism 


Exercise - 6
a) Write a JAVA program that describes exception handling mechanism 
b) Write a JAVA program Illustrating Multiple catch clauses 
c) Write a JAVA program for creation of Java Built-in Exceptions 
d) Write a JAVA program for creation of User Defined Exception 


Exercise - 7
a) Write a JAVA program that creates threads by extending Thread class.First thread display 
“Good Morning “every 1 sec, the second thread displays “Hello “every 2 seconds and the 
third display “Welcome” every 3 seconds,(Repeat the same by implementing Runnable) 
b) Write a program illustrating is Alive and join () 
c) Write a Program illustrating Daemon Threads. 
d) Write a JAVA program Producer Consumer Problem


Exercise – 8 
a) Write a JAVA program that import and use the user defined packages
b) Without writing any code, build a GUI that display text in label and image in an 
ImageView (use JavaFX)
c) Build a Tip Calculator app using several JavaFX components and learn how to respond to 
user interactions with the GUI


Exercise – 9 
a) Write a java program that connects to a database using JDBC 
b)Write a java program to connect to a database using JDBC and insert values into it. 
c) Write a java program to connect to a database using JDBC and delete values from it
